---
title: Musings on tools
layout: post
published: true
category: article
tags: 
  - tools
---

Tools are a means to an end. The elaboration of tool varieties, as noted by eminent thinkers such as Karl Marx demonstrates they have value beyond their narrowly defined use. Elaborate designs, decoration and valuable materials are invested in the creation of these objects. This miniture article is a homage to tools worldwide.

## Tools in the past and future

Hammers, blades, axes and adzes are thought to be first tools. The extra leverage of a pole or stick added to the first lithic blades are leading to the later. Others followed, though in a purely philosophical sense teeth, nails and hands as vices, scrapers and as a striking implement could be included within this loose tool definition.

In this website the question of how too tools can be used in the future will be addressed. Hand tools powered by human muscle are of particular interest here: these have the advantages of energy efficiency, robustness and scalability that motorised options do not. A spade, for example, will be useful in almost any conceivable vision of the future; a mechanical digger, by contrast will only be useful in more specific cases where fuel, spare parts and skilled drivers are available. Given the certainty of [peak oil](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peak_oil), spades are a safer option for the long-term future.

## The scythe

The scythe is a hand tool that can both earn money in many areas (rich and poor) and provide joy to its user. The scythe is an example of a hand tool which has largely disappeared in the developed world, but which is experiencing a resurgence as people realise it can replace more expensive motorised alternatives. The strimmer or whipper snipper may be slightly faster, but for many applications this is outweighed by the higher quality swathe that results, not to mention the health and psychological benefits that accrue to the user. This [article](http://nowthenmagazine.com/issue-65/scything/) more information on scythes and appropriate technology more generally.

## Conclusion 

These are just some preliminary musings about tools and their importance. Most of this website will contain information that is less philosophical and much more concrete. From time to time though, it is good just to step back from one's work and marvel at the items that made it possible: out tools.